README.md, before:

# GitHub Repository Release Monitor

🔍 **Never miss a critical update again!** A lightweight Python tool that monitors GitHub repositories for new releases, perfect for CI/CD pipelines, dependency tracking, and security updates.

[![Tests](https://github.com/malston/release-monitor/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/malston/release-monitor/actions/workflows/test.yml)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](LICENSE)
[![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.8+-green.svg)](https://www.python.org)
[![Concourse CI](https://img.shields.io/badge/works%20with-Concourse%20CI-blue)](https://concourse-ci.org)
[![PRs Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg)](CONTRIBUTING.md)
[![Good First Issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/malston/release-monitor/good%20first%20issue)](https://github.com/malston/release-monitor/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22)

**Quick Start**: New to Python? See our [Quick Start Guide](QUICK_START.md) for non-Python developers.

## 🚀 Why Use GitHub Release Monitor?

- **🔄 Automated Dependency Tracking**: Know instantly when your dependencies release new versions
- **🔐 Security Updates**: Stay on top of critical security patches
- **📊 CI/CD Integration**: Built specifically for Concourse pipelines (but works anywhere!)
- **💾 Stateful Monitoring**: Only alerts on truly new releases, not ones you've seen
- **🎯 Flexible Output**: JSON or YAML output for easy integration
- **⚡ Lightweight**: Simple Python script with minimal dependencies

Perfect for teams who need to:

- Track when Kubernetes, Gatekeeper, Istio, or other tools release updates
- Automate dependency updates in their CI/CD pipelines  
- Monitor security tools for latest versions
- Build compliance reports showing update status

### 📸 Quick Example

```bash
$ python3 github_monitor.py --config config.yaml

{
  "timestamp": "2025-05-30T13:40:38.695772+00:00",
  "total_repositories_checked": 3,
  "new_releases_found": 2,
  "releases": [
    {
      "repository": "kubernetes/kubernetes",
      "tag_name": "v1.33.1",
      "name": "Kubernetes v1.33.1",
      "published_at": "2025-05-15T17:49:01Z",
      "html_url": "https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/releases/tag/v1.33.1"
    },
    {
      "repository": "istio/istio", 
      "tag_name": "1.22.4",
      "name": "1.22.4",
      "published_at": "2025-05-21T13:02:01Z",
      "html_url": "https://github.com/istio/istio/releases/tag/1.22.4"
    }
  ]
}
```

## Features

- **GitHub API Integration**: Authenticates with GitHub API using personal access tokens
- **Rate Limiting**: Built-in protection against API rate limits with automatic retry
- **State Tracking**: Maintains state between runs to detect only new releases
- **Multiple Output Formats**: Supports JSON and YAML output
- **Concourse Integration**: Designed for use in Concourse pipelines with bash wrapper
- **Error Handling**: Comprehensive error handling for network issues and API failures
- **Configurable**: YAML-based configuration for repository lists and settings
- **📥 Release Downloads**: Automatically download release assets with version management
- **🔍 Asset Filtering**: Download only specific file types using configurable patterns
- **📜 Manifest Support**: Download Kubernetes manifests, YAML configs, and source archives
- **✅ Verification**: Built-in checksum verification for downloaded files
- **🗂️ Smart Organization**: Organize downloads by repository and version

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please see our [Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) for detailed information.

### 🎯 Where to Start Contributing

#### Good First Issues

Perfect for newcomers to the project:

- [🏷️ Good First Issues](https://github.com/malston/release-monitor/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22) - Beginner-friendly tasks
- [🤝 Help Wanted](https://github.com/malston/release-monitor/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22help+wanted%22) - Issues where we need help
- [✨ Enhancements](https://github.com/malston/release-monitor/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Aenhancement) - New features and improvements

#### Types of Contributions We're Looking For

- 🐛 **Bug Fixes** - Help us squash bugs
- 📚 **Documentation** - Improve docs, add examples, fix typos
- ✨ **New Features** - Add support for new CI/CD tools (GitHub Actions, GitLab CI, etc.)
- 🧪 **Tests** - Increase test coverage
- 🎨 **Code Quality** - Refactoring and improvements
- 🌍 **Examples** - Add more use cases and integration examples

#### Quick Start for Contributors

1. **Find an Issue**: Browse [open issues](https://github.com/malston/release-monitor/issues) or create a new one
2. **Comment**: Let us know you're working on it
3. **Fork & Clone**: See our [Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md#fork-and-clone)
4. **Make Changes**: Follow our coding standards
5. **Submit PR**: We'll review and provide feedback

### Quick Links

- [🍴 Fork the repository](https://github.com/malston/release-monitor/fork)
- [🐛 Report a bug](https://github.com/malston/release-monitor/issues/new?template=bug_report.md)
- [💡 Request a feature](https://github.com/malston/release-monitor/issues/new?template=feature_request.md)
- [📖 Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md)
- [👥 Contributors](CONTRIBUTORS.md)
- [💬 Discussions](https://github.com/malston/release-monitor/discussions) (coming soon)

## Requirements

- Python 3.8+ (tested on 3.8, 3.9, 3.10, 3.11)
- GitHub personal access token
- Dependencies: `requests`, `PyYAML`, `boto3` (for S3 storage)

## Installation

### Quick Start (Recommended)

Use the Makefile for easy setup:

```bash
# Complete setup
make setup

# Edit .env with your GitHub token
# Edit config-local.yaml with test repositories

# Run monitoring
make run
```

### Manual Installation

1. Clone or download the repository
2. Install dependencies:

   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. Set up your GitHub token:

   ```bash
   export GITHUB_TOKEN="your_personal_access_token"
   ```

## Configuration

Create a `config.yaml` file to specify repositories to monitor:

```yaml
repositories:
  - owner: kubernetes
    repo: kubernetes
    description: "Kubernetes container orchestration platform"
  
  - owner: istio
    repo: istio
    description: "Istio service mesh"

settings:
  rate_limit_delay: 1.0
  max_releases_per_repo: 10
  include_prereleases: false

# Optional: Enable release downloads
download:
  enabled: false
  directory: ./downloads
  asset_patterns:
    - "*.tar.gz"
    - "*.zip"
  verify_downloads: true
```

## Usage

### Python Script

```bash
# Basic usage
python3 github_monitor.py --config config.yaml

# Save output to file
python3 github_monitor.py --config config.yaml --output releases.json

# YAML output format
python3 github_monitor.py --config config.yaml --format yaml

# Force check all releases (ignore timestamps)
python3 github_monitor.py --config config.yaml --force-check

# Monitor and download new releases automatically
python3 github_monitor.py --config config.yaml --download
```

### Bash Wrapper

```bash
# Basic usage
./scripts/monitor.sh

# Custom configuration
./scripts/monitor.sh --config custom-config.yaml --output releases.json

# YAML output
./scripts/monitor.sh --format yaml

# Force check
./scripts/monitor.sh --force-check

# Monitor and download releases
./scripts/monitor.sh --download
```

### Release Downloads

Enable automatic downloading of GitHub release assets:

```bash
# Configure downloads in config.yaml first
python3 github_monitor.py --config config.yaml --download

# Use the dedicated download script
./scripts/download.sh --config config.yaml --input releases.json

# Monitor and download in one pipeline
./scripts/monitor.sh | ./scripts/download.sh
```

See the [Download Guide](docs/DOWNLOAD_GUIDE.md) for detailed configuration and usage.

### Kubernetes Manifests and Source Code

Many repositories provide Kubernetes manifests (YAML files) or only source code instead of binary releases:

```bash
# Download YAML manifests and source archives
python3 github_monitor.py --config config.yaml --download

# Example repository: Wavefront Observability for Kubernetes
# Downloads: wavefront-operator.yaml + source tarball
```

See the [Source Code Downloads Guide](docs/SOURCE_CODE_DOWNLOADS.md) for repositories that release manifests or source-only.

## Output Format

The script outputs structured data about new releases:

```json
{
  "timestamp": "2024-01-15T10:30:00Z",
  "total_repositories_checked": 8,
  "new_releases_found": 2,
  "releases": [
    {
      "repository": "kubernetes/kubernetes",
      "owner": "kubernetes",
      "repo": "kubernetes",
      "tag_name": "v1.29.1",
      "name": "v1.29.1",
      "published_at": "2024-01-14T15:20:30Z",
      "tarball_url": "https://api.github.com/repos/kubernetes/kubernetes/tarball/v1.29.1",
      "zipball_url": "https://api.github.com/repos/kubernetes/kubernetes/zipball/v1.29.1",
      "html_url": "https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/releases/tag/v1.29.1",
      "prerelease": false,
      "draft": false
    }
  ]
}
```

## Concourse Integration

The project includes complete Concourse CI/CD pipeline support with multiple pipeline options:

📊 **[View Pipeline Flowchart](docs/pipeline-flowchart.md)** - Visual overview of how the pipeline works

```text
ci/
├── pipeline-s3-compatible.yml       # S3-compatible pipeline (MinIO/AWS S3) ⭐ PRIMARY
├── pipeline-simple.yml              # Basic monitoring only (getting started) 🏁 STARTER  
├── pipeline.yml                     # Traditional AWS S3 pipeline 🏢 AWS-ONLY
├── fly.sh                           # Deployment script
└── tasks/
    ├── check-releases/              # Full monitoring task
    │   ├── task.yml
    │   └── task.sh
    ├── check-releases-simple/       # Simplified monitoring task
    │   ├── task.yml
    │   └── task.sh
    └── download-releases/           # Advanced download task with S3 support
        ├── task.yml
        └── task.sh

scripts/
├── monitor.sh                       # Monitor wrapper script
└── download.sh                      # Download wrapper script

params/
├── global.yml                       # Global parameters
├── test.yml                        # Test environment parameters
└── prod.yml                        # Production environment parameters
```

### Pipeline Options

1. **S3-Compatible Pipeline** (`pipeline-s3-compatible.yml`) ⭐ **PRIMARY**:
   - Full MinIO and AWS S3 support
   - Advanced version tracking and downloads
   - Force download and database management utilities
   - Production-ready with automatic cleanup

2. **Artifactory Pipeline** (`pipeline-artifactory.yml`) 🏢 **ENTERPRISE**:
   - JFrog Artifactory integration for enterprise environments
   - Version database and artifact storage in Artifactory
   - API key and username/password authentication
   - SSL configuration for self-signed certificates
   - See [Artifactory Setup Guide](docs/ARTIFACTORY_SETUP.md)

3. **Simple Pipeline** (`pipeline-simple.yml`) 🏁 **STARTER**:
   - Basic monitoring without storage dependencies
   - Easy setup for getting started
   - No downloads, perfect for learning the basics

4. **AWS S3 Pipeline** (`pipeline.yml`) 🏢 **AWS-ONLY**:
   - Traditional AWS S3 integration
   - Standard download functionality
   - For pure AWS environments

### Pipeline Setup

1. Configure parameters in `params/` directory:
   - Edit `global.yml` for shared configuration
   - Create environment-specific files (e.g., `test.yml`, `prod.yml`)

2. Deploy the pipeline using the fly script:

   ```bash
   # Deploy standard pipeline
   ./ci/fly.sh set -t test -f test

   # Deploy simple pipeline
   fly -t test set-pipeline -p release-monitor-simple \
     -c ci/pipeline-simple.yml \
     -l params/global.yml -l params/test.yml

   # Deploy S3-compatible pipeline (recommended)
   fly -t test set-pipeline -p release-monitor-minio \
     -c ci/pipeline-s3-compatible.yml \
     -l params/global-s3-compatible.yml -l params/minio-local.yml

   # Deploy Artifactory pipeline (enterprise)
   fly -t test set-pipeline -p release-monitor-artifactory \
     -c ci/pipeline-artifactory.yml \
     -l params/global-artifactory.yml -l params/test.yml
   ```

3. Unpause the pipeline:

   ```bash
   fly -t your-target unpause-pipeline -p github-release-monitor
   ```

### Pipeline Features

- **Scheduled Execution**: Runs monitoring at configurable intervals
- **Release Detection**: Identifies new releases since last run
- **Asset Downloads**: Download specific release assets based on patterns
- **Version Management**: Track downloaded versions to avoid duplicates
- **S3 Integration**: Optional S3 storage for state and downloads
- **Structured Output**: JSON/YAML output for downstream processing
- **Manual Triggers**: Download specific releases on demand

## State Management

The script maintains state in `release_state.json` to track:

- Last checked timestamp for each repository
- Last overall run timestamp

This ensures only new releases are reported on subsequent runs.

## Error Handling

- **API Rate Limiting**: Automatic retry with exponential backoff
- **Network Errors**: Graceful handling of connection issues
- **Missing Releases**: Handles repositories with no releases
- **Invalid Configuration**: Clear error messages for configuration issues

## Environment Variables

- `GITHUB_TOKEN` (required): GitHub personal access token
- `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` (Concourse): AWS access key for S3
- `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` (Concourse): AWS secret key for S3

## Local Development with Docker

### Quick Start - All Services

```bash
# Start MinIO, Artifactory, and PostgreSQL
docker-compose -f docker-compose-full.yml up -d

# Check service status
docker-compose -f docker-compose-full.yml logs -f setup-checker
```

### Individual Services

```bash
# MinIO S3-compatible storage only
docker-compose up -d

# JFrog Artifactory OSS only
docker-compose -f docker-compose-artifactory.yml up -d

# Automated Artifactory setup
./scripts/setup-artifactory-local.sh
```

### Service URLs

- **MinIO Console**: <http://localhost:9001> (minioadmin/minioadmin)
- **Artifactory UI**: <http://localhost:8081> (admin/password)  
- **PostgreSQL**: localhost:5432 (release_monitor/release_monitor_pass)

## Examples

### Basic Monitoring

```bash
export GITHUB_TOKEN="ghp_xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
./scripts/monitor.sh --config config.yaml
```

### Continuous Integration

```bash
# In a CI environment
./scripts/monitor.sh \
  --config config.yaml \
  --output /tmp/releases.json \
  --format json

# Process results
if [ $(jq '.new_releases_found' /tmp/releases.json) -gt 0 ]; then
  echo "New releases found, triggering downstream jobs"
  # Trigger additional pipeline steps
fi
```

### Custom Repository List

Create a custom configuration for specific projects:

```yaml
repositories:
  - owner: your-org
    repo: your-project
    description: "Internal project"
  
  - owner: open-policy-agent
    repo: gatekeeper
    description: "Policy Controller for Kubernetes"

settings:
  rate_limit_delay: 2.0  # Slower API calls
  include_prereleases: true  # Include pre-releases
```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Rate Limiting**: Increase `rate_limit_delay` in configuration
2. **Token Issues**: Ensure `GITHUB_TOKEN` has proper permissions
3. **Network Errors**: Check connectivity to api.github.com
4. **State File Errors**: Check write permissions for state file location

### Debug Mode

Enable verbose logging by setting the log level:

```python
logging.basicConfig(level=logging.DEBUG)
```

## Security Considerations

- Store GitHub tokens securely (environment variables, secret management)
- Use minimal token permissions (public repository read access)
- Regularly rotate access tokens
- Avoid logging sensitive information

## Performance

- Default rate limiting: 1 second between API calls
- Typical execution time: < 2 minutes for 10 repositories
- Memory usage: < 50MB for typical workloads
- Network usage: ~1KB per repository check

## Development Tools

### Makefile Commands

A Makefile is provided for common development tasks:

```bash
# Setup and Installation
make setup          # Complete local development setup
make install        # Install Python dependencies
make clean          # Clean generated files
make clean-all      # Clean everything including venv

# Development
make run            # Run monitoring with default config
make run-local      # Run with local config
make test           # Run all tests
make check          # Run lint, validate, and test
make watch          # Run continuously (every 5 minutes)

# CI/CD Pipeline
make validate                    # Validate pipeline configuration
make pipeline-set-test           # Deploy to test (public repos)
make pipeline-set-test-with-key  # Deploy to test (private repos with SSH key)
make pipeline-set-prod           # Deploy to production
make pipeline-set-prod-with-key  # Deploy to production (private repos with SSH key)

# Help
make help           # Show all available commands
```

## License

This project is provided as-is for educational and operational use.

Commit message:

Add prominent Artifactory documentation links and fix markdown issues
- Add "Storage Backends" section to main README.md with clear links to Artifactory guide
- Position Artifactory as enterprise option alongside S3-compatible default
- Fix markdown linting issues in README-ARTIFACTORY.md (blank lines around lists)
- Improve discoverability of comprehensive Artifactory integration guide
- Help users choose appropriate storage backend for their infrastructure

README.md, after:

# GitHub Repository Release Monitor

🔍 **Never miss a critical update again!** A lightweight Python tool that monitors GitHub repositories for new releases, perfect for CI/CD pipelines, dependency tracking, and security updates.

[![Tests](https://github.com/malston/release-monitor/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/malston/release-monitor/actions/workflows/test.yml)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](LICENSE)
[![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.8+-green.svg)](https://www.python.org)
[![Concourse CI](https://img.shields.io/badge/works%20with-Concourse%20CI-blue)](https://concourse-ci.org)
[![PRs Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg)](CONTRIBUTING.md)
[![Good First Issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/malston/release-monitor/good%20first%20issue)](https://github.com/malston/release-monitor/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22)

**Quick Start**: New to Python? See our [Quick Start Guide](QUICK_START.md) for non-Python developers.

## 🚀 Why Use GitHub Release Monitor?

- **🔄 Automated Dependency Tracking**: Know instantly when your dependencies release new versions
- **🔐 Security Updates**: Stay on top of critical security patches
- **📊 CI/CD Integration**: Built specifically for Concourse pipelines (but works anywhere!)
- **💾 Stateful Monitoring**: Only alerts on truly new releases, not ones you've seen
- **🎯 Flexible Output**: JSON or YAML output for easy integration
- **⚡ Lightweight**: Simple Python script with minimal dependencies

Perfect for teams who need to:

- Track when Kubernetes, Gatekeeper, Istio, or other tools release updates
- Automate dependency updates in their CI/CD pipelines  
- Monitor security tools for latest versions
- Build compliance reports showing update status

### 📸 Quick Example

```bash
$ python3 github_monitor.py --config config.yaml

{
  "timestamp": "2025-05-30T13:40:38.695772+00:00",
  "total_repositories_checked": 3,
  "new_releases_found": 2,
  "releases": [
    {
      "repository": "kubernetes/kubernetes",
      "tag_name": "v1.33.1",
      "name": "Kubernetes v1.33.1",
      "published_at": "2025-05-15T17:49:01Z",
      "html_url": "https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/releases/tag/v1.33.1"
    },
    {
      "repository": "istio/istio", 
      "tag_name": "1.22.4",
      "name": "1.22.4",
      "published_at": "2025-05-21T13:02:01Z",
      "html_url": "https://github.com/istio/istio/releases/tag/1.22.4"
    }
  ]
}
```

## Features

- **GitHub API Integration**: Authenticates with GitHub API using personal access tokens
- **Rate Limiting**: Built-in protection against API rate limits with automatic retry
- **State Tracking**: Maintains state between runs to detect only new releases
- **Multiple Output Formats**: Supports JSON and YAML output
- **Concourse Integration**: Designed for use in Concourse pipelines with bash wrapper
- **Error Handling**: Comprehensive error handling for network issues and API failures
- **Configurable**: YAML-based configuration for repository lists and settings
- **📥 Release Downloads**: Automatically download release assets with version management
- **🔍 Asset Filtering**: Download only specific file types using configurable patterns
- **📜 Manifest Support**: Download Kubernetes manifests, YAML configs, and source archives
- **✅ Verification**: Built-in checksum verification for downloaded files
- **🗂️ Smart Organization**: Organize downloads by repository and version

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please see our [Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) for detailed information.

### 🎯 Where to Start Contributing

#### Good First Issues

Perfect for newcomers to the project:

- [🏷️ Good First Issues](https://github.com/malston/release-monitor/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22) - Beginner-friendly tasks
- [🤝 Help Wanted](https://github.com/malston/release-monitor/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22help+wanted%22) - Issues where we need help
- [✨ Enhancements](https://github.com/malston/release-monitor/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Aenhancement) - New features and improvements

#### Types of Contributions We're Looking For

- 🐛 **Bug Fixes** - Help us squash bugs
- 📚 **Documentation** - Improve docs, add examples, fix typos
- ✨ **New Features** - Add support for new CI/CD tools (GitHub Actions, GitLab CI, etc.)
- 🧪 **Tests** - Increase test coverage
- 🎨 **Code Quality** - Refactoring and improvements
- 🌍 **Examples** - Add more use cases and integration examples

#### Quick Start for Contributors

1. **Find an Issue**: Browse [open issues](https://github.com/malston/release-monitor/issues) or create a new one
2. **Comment**: Let us know you're working on it
3. **Fork & Clone**: See our [Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md#fork-and-clone)
4. **Make Changes**: Follow our coding standards
5. **Submit PR**: We'll review and provide feedback

### Quick Links

- [🍴 Fork the repository](https://github.com/malston/release-monitor/fork)
- [🐛 Report a bug](https://github.com/malston/release-monitor/issues/new?template=bug_report.md)
- [💡 Request a feature](https://github.com/malston/release-monitor/issues/new?template=feature_request.md)
- [📖 Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md)
- [👥 Contributors](CONTRIBUTORS.md)
- [💬 Discussions](https://github.com/malston/release-monitor/discussions) (coming soon)

## Storage Backends

The GitHub Release Monitor supports multiple storage backends for artifacts and version tracking:

### 📦 AWS S3 & S3-Compatible Storage (Default)
- **MinIO**, **AWS S3**, **Google Cloud Storage**, and other S3-compatible services
- Built-in support with automatic failover between boto3 and MinIO client
- Perfect for cloud-native and self-hosted environments

### 🏢 JFrog Artifactory (Enterprise)
- Full JFrog Artifactory OSS and Enterprise support
- **Complete Documentation**: [📖 Artifactory Integration Guide](README-ARTIFACTORY.md)
- Version database and artifact storage in Artifactory repositories
- API key and username/password authentication
- SSL configuration for self-signed certificates

Choose the storage backend that best fits your infrastructure:
- **Getting Started**: Use the default S3-compatible setup with MinIO
- **Enterprise**: Use Artifactory if you already have JFrog infrastructure
- **Cloud**: Use AWS S3, Google Cloud Storage, or Azure Blob Storage

## Requirements

- Python 3.8+ (tested on 3.8, 3.9, 3.10, 3.11)
- GitHub personal access token
- Dependencies: `requests`, `PyYAML`, `boto3` (for S3 storage)

## Installation

### Quick Start (Recommended)

Use the Makefile for easy setup:

```bash
# Complete setup
make setup

# Edit .env with your GitHub token
# Edit config-local.yaml with test repositories

# Run monitoring
make run
```

### Manual Installation

1. Clone or download the repository
2. Install dependencies:

   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. Set up your GitHub token:

   ```bash
   export GITHUB_TOKEN="your_personal_access_token"
   ```

## Configuration

Create a `config.yaml` file to specify repositories to monitor:

```yaml
repositories:
  - owner: kubernetes
    repo: kubernetes
    description: "Kubernetes container orchestration platform"
  
  - owner: istio
    repo: istio
    description: "Istio service mesh"

settings:
  rate_limit_delay: 1.0
  max_releases_per_repo: 10
  include_prereleases: false

# Optional: Enable release downloads
download:
  enabled: false
  directory: ./downloads
  asset_patterns:
    - "*.tar.gz"
    - "*.zip"
  verify_downloads: true
```

## Usage

### Python Script

```bash
# Basic usage
python3 github_monitor.py --config config.yaml

# Save output to file
python3 github_monitor.py --config config.yaml --output releases.json

# YAML output format
python3 github_monitor.py --config config.yaml --format yaml

# Force check all releases (ignore timestamps)
python3 github_monitor.py --config config.yaml --force-check

# Monitor and download new releases automatically
python3 github_monitor.py --config config.yaml --download
```

### Bash Wrapper

```bash
# Basic usage
./scripts/monitor.sh

# Custom configuration
./scripts/monitor.sh --config custom-config.yaml --output releases.json

# YAML output
./scripts/monitor.sh --format yaml

# Force check
./scripts/monitor.sh --force-check

# Monitor and download releases
./scripts/monitor.sh --download
```

### Release Downloads

Enable automatic downloading of GitHub release assets:

```bash
# Configure downloads in config.yaml first
python3 github_monitor.py --config config.yaml --download

# Use the dedicated download script
./scripts/download.sh --config config.yaml --input releases.json

# Monitor and download in one pipeline
./scripts/monitor.sh | ./scripts/download.sh
```

See the [Download Guide](docs/DOWNLOAD_GUIDE.md) for detailed configuration and usage.

### Kubernetes Manifests and Source Code

Many repositories provide Kubernetes manifests (YAML files) or only source code instead of binary releases:

```bash
# Download YAML manifests and source archives
python3 github_monitor.py --config config.yaml --download

# Example repository: Wavefront Observability for Kubernetes
# Downloads: wavefront-operator.yaml + source tarball
```

See the [Source Code Downloads Guide](docs/SOURCE_CODE_DOWNLOADS.md) for repositories that release manifests or source-only.

## Output Format

The script outputs structured data about new releases:

```json
{
  "timestamp": "2024-01-15T10:30:00Z",
  "total_repositories_checked": 8,
  "new_releases_found": 2,
  "releases": [
    {
      "repository": "kubernetes/kubernetes",
      "owner": "kubernetes",
      "repo": "kubernetes",
      "tag_name": "v1.29.1",
      "name": "v1.29.1",
      "published_at": "2024-01-14T15:20:30Z",
      "tarball_url": "https://api.github.com/repos/kubernetes/kubernetes/tarball/v1.29.1",
      "zipball_url": "https://api.github.com/repos/kubernetes/kubernetes/zipball/v1.29.1",
      "html_url": "https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/releases/tag/v1.29.1",
      "prerelease": false,
      "draft": false
    }
  ]
}
```

## Concourse Integration

The project includes complete Concourse CI/CD pipeline support with multiple pipeline options:

📊 **[View Pipeline Flowchart](docs/pipeline-flowchart.md)** - Visual overview of how the pipeline works

```text
ci/
├── pipeline-s3-compatible.yml       # S3-compatible pipeline (MinIO/AWS S3) ⭐ PRIMARY
├── pipeline-simple.yml              # Basic monitoring only (getting started) 🏁 STARTER  
├── pipeline.yml                     # Traditional AWS S3 pipeline 🏢 AWS-ONLY
├── fly.sh                           # Deployment script
└── tasks/
    ├── check-releases/              # Full monitoring task
    │   ├── task.yml
    │   └── task.sh
    ├── check-releases-simple/       # Simplified monitoring task
    │   ├── task.yml
    │   └── task.sh
    └── download-releases/           # Advanced download task with S3 support
        ├── task.yml
        └── task.sh

scripts/
├── monitor.sh                       # Monitor wrapper script
└── download.sh                      # Download wrapper script

params/
├── global.yml                       # Global parameters
├── test.yml                        # Test environment parameters
└── prod.yml                        # Production environment parameters
```

### Pipeline Options

1. **S3-Compatible Pipeline** (`pipeline-s3-compatible.yml`) ⭐ **PRIMARY**:
   - Full MinIO and AWS S3 support
   - Advanced version tracking and downloads
   - Force download and database management utilities
   - Production-ready with automatic cleanup

2. **Artifactory Pipeline** (`pipeline-artifactory.yml`) 🏢 **ENTERPRISE**:
   - JFrog Artifactory integration for enterprise environments
   - Version database and artifact storage in Artifactory
   - API key and username/password authentication
   - SSL configuration for self-signed certificates
   - See [Artifactory Setup Guide](docs/ARTIFACTORY_SETUP.md)

3. **Simple Pipeline** (`pipeline-simple.yml`) 🏁 **STARTER**:
   - Basic monitoring without storage dependencies
   - Easy setup for getting started
   - No downloads, perfect for learning the basics

4. **AWS S3 Pipeline** (`pipeline.yml`) 🏢 **AWS-ONLY**:
   - Traditional AWS S3 integration
   - Standard download functionality
   - For pure AWS environments

### Pipeline Setup

1. Configure parameters in `params/` directory:
   - Edit `global.yml` for shared configuration
   - Create environment-specific files (e.g., `test.yml`, `prod.yml`)

2. Deploy the pipeline using the fly script:

   ```bash
   # Deploy standard pipeline
   ./ci/fly.sh set -t test -f test

   # Deploy simple pipeline
   fly -t test set-pipeline -p release-monitor-simple \
     -c ci/pipeline-simple.yml \
     -l params/global.yml -l params/test.yml

   # Deploy S3-compatible pipeline (recommended)
   fly -t test set-pipeline -p release-monitor-minio \
     -c ci/pipeline-s3-compatible.yml \
     -l params/global-s3-compatible.yml -l params/minio-local.yml

   # Deploy Artifactory pipeline (enterprise)
   fly -t test set-pipeline -p release-monitor-artifactory \
     -c ci/pipeline-artifactory.yml \
     -l params/global-artifactory.yml -l params/test.yml
   ```

3. Unpause the pipeline:

   ```bash
   fly -t your-target unpause-pipeline -p github-release-monitor
   ```

### Pipeline Features

- **Scheduled Execution**: Runs monitoring at configurable intervals
- **Release Detection**: Identifies new releases since last run
- **Asset Downloads**: Download specific release assets based on patterns
- **Version Management**: Track downloaded versions to avoid duplicates
- **S3 Integration**: Optional S3 storage for state and downloads
- **Structured Output**: JSON/YAML output for downstream processing
- **Manual Triggers**: Download specific releases on demand

## State Management

The script maintains state in `release_state.json` to track:

- Last checked timestamp for each repository
- Last overall run timestamp

This ensures only new releases are reported on subsequent runs.

## Error Handling

- **API Rate Limiting**: Automatic retry with exponential backoff
- **Network Errors**: Graceful handling of connection issues
- **Missing Releases**: Handles repositories with no releases
- **Invalid Configuration**: Clear error messages for configuration issues

## Environment Variables

- `GITHUB_TOKEN` (required): GitHub personal access token
- `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` (Concourse): AWS access key for S3
- `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` (Concourse): AWS secret key for S3

## Local Development with Docker

### Quick Start - All Services

```bash
# Start MinIO, Artifactory, and PostgreSQL
docker-compose -f docker-compose-full.yml up -d

# Check service status
docker-compose -f docker-compose-full.yml logs -f setup-checker
```

### Individual Services

```bash
# MinIO S3-compatible storage only
docker-compose up -d

# JFrog Artifactory OSS only
docker-compose -f docker-compose-artifactory.yml up -d

# Automated Artifactory setup
./scripts/setup-artifactory-local.sh
```

### Service URLs

- **MinIO Console**: <http://localhost:9001> (minioadmin/minioadmin)
- **Artifactory UI**: <http://localhost:8081> (admin/password)  
- **PostgreSQL**: localhost:5432 (release_monitor/release_monitor_pass)

## Examples

### Basic Monitoring

```bash
export GITHUB_TOKEN="ghp_xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
./scripts/monitor.sh --config config.yaml
```

### Continuous Integration

```bash
# In a CI environment
./scripts/monitor.sh \
  --config config.yaml \
  --output /tmp/releases.json \
  --format json

# Process results
if [ $(jq '.new_releases_found' /tmp/releases.json) -gt 0 ]; then
  echo "New releases found, triggering downstream jobs"
  # Trigger additional pipeline steps
fi
```

### Custom Repository List

Create a custom configuration for specific projects:

```yaml
repositories:
  - owner: your-org
    repo: your-project
    description: "Internal project"
  
  - owner: open-policy-agent
    repo: gatekeeper
    description: "Policy Controller for Kubernetes"

settings:
  rate_limit_delay: 2.0  # Slower API calls
  include_prereleases: true  # Include pre-releases
```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Rate Limiting**: Increase `rate_limit_delay` in configuration
2. **Token Issues**: Ensure `GITHUB_TOKEN` has proper permissions
3. **Network Errors**: Check connectivity to api.github.com
4. **State File Errors**: Check write permissions for state file location

### Debug Mode

Enable verbose logging by setting the log level:

```python
logging.basicConfig(level=logging.DEBUG)
```

## Security Considerations

- Store GitHub tokens securely (environment variables, secret management)
- Use minimal token permissions (public repository read access)
- Regularly rotate access tokens
- Avoid logging sensitive information

## Performance

- Default rate limiting: 1 second between API calls
- Typical execution time: < 2 minutes for 10 repositories
- Memory usage: < 50MB for typical workloads
- Network usage: ~1KB per repository check

## Development Tools

### Makefile Commands

A Makefile is provided for common development tasks:

```bash
# Setup and Installation
make setup          # Complete local development setup
make install        # Install Python dependencies
make clean          # Clean generated files
make clean-all      # Clean everything including venv

# Development
make run            # Run monitoring with default config
make run-local      # Run with local config
make test           # Run all tests
make check          # Run lint, validate, and test
make watch          # Run continuously (every 5 minutes)

# CI/CD Pipeline
make validate                    # Validate pipeline configuration
make pipeline-set-test           # Deploy to test (public repos)
make pipeline-set-test-with-key  # Deploy to test (private repos with SSH key)
make pipeline-set-prod           # Deploy to production
make pipeline-set-prod-with-key  # Deploy to production (private repos with SSH key)

# Help
make help           # Show all available commands
```

## License

This project is provided as-is for educational and operational use.
